Welcome, in this video, I'm going to show you an alternative way
to integrate your changes into the master branch, this time from the local side.
I'm currently on GitHub, logged in, and on the website GitHub repository.
I'm currently on the master branch, and GitHub is letting us know
that we have this "remove-ipsum" branch just laying around.
Since it's a recent branch, the GitHub interface thinks we might want to do a pull request,
and most of the time that would probably be true;
however, I'm going to integrate the changes that I have on the local side.
So, let's hop over to our terminal.
Back on our system, I'm currently in the website Git repository,
and I'm on the "remove-ipsum" branch. Since we just pushed everything up,
the branch is in a clean working directory state
and it is up-to-date with 'origin/remove-ipsum', which is a tracking branch.
In order to integrate our changes into master, we need to change back to the master branch.
Switching branches in Git, we need to use the "checkout" command: "git checkout master".
Once you've switched to the master branch, since we haven't fetched anything recently,
our local repo doesn't realize that it's actually out of date.
So, I know that the changes should be fairly benign, so I'm just going to do a "git pull".
Great, now we've integrated all the changes that have changed on master
from our GitHub repository. So, now we're ready to integrate our changes
that we have on our local "remove-ipsum" branch.
Type "git merge"; space; and then the branch to merge in, which is "remove-ipsum".
Since this is not a fast-forward merge, but it is still an automatic merge,
I'm being prompted for my merge message, with a default message being provided.
I'm going to save and close, and whatever I typed in my default editor
will be used as the merge commit's message.
Using "git status", we see that our local master is "ahead of 'origin/master' by 2 commits",
which would be the commits for the actual deletion of the "lipsum.txt" file
and then our merge commit that we had when we did the merge back into master.
So now, let's synchronize our local changes back up to GitHub.
Great, now we just pushed up to master; let's check it out on GitHub.
One of the things you'll notice is the bar that was advertising
the "remove-ipsum" branch is not here anymore.
And that's because GitHub detected that we integrated our changes
that were in that branch locally, and pushed them up so that
now master reflects the same commits as the other branch.
The other branch is still here, but now master and that other branch are now equal.
Let's check it out; before on master we had our "lipsum.txt" file, and now we do not.
Let's change to the "remove-ipsum" branch.
When we switch to this branch, it tells us "This branch is 3 commits behind master",
that's because this branch doesn't have the changes
from the example branch that was integrated into master already,
and it doesn't have the merge commits associated with merging back into master.
Now, let's go to the branches tab; since we know we have all the commits
that were associated with the "remove-ipsum" branch, we no longer need this branch.
So, let's delete this branch; we can do that from the branches page.
Just go over to the trash can icon associated with the branch you wish to delete.
Hover over it, and it will say "Delete this branch".
Now, click on that icon, and that will delete the branch.
You have a little bit of saving grace here, because until you refresh this page
you have the option to restore the branch.
Once you refresh this page or navigate away from this page, the restore ability goes away.
Great, let's click on the name of the repository, and that takes us back to our master branch.
Click on the drop down, and you can see that we are left with just the master branch.
However, we're not done yet; let's go back to our terminal,
and we have two things going on. If I do a "git branch -a",
I can see that I have a "remove-ipsum" branch still laying around.
That's the local branch that we started out with
before we pushed it up to GitHub and then later merged it back into master.
We also still have that branch on GitHub, or at least the reference to it;
that's under "remotes/origin/", branch name.
So, let's fix both of those things; first thing I'm going to do is delete our branch.
"git branch -d" for delete; space; and then our branch name, which is "remove-ipsum".
Great, we have deleted that branch.
Now, Git would have warned us if we had not already
integrated those changes into master, so that's an important step.
Now, if I do a "git branch -a", we are left with a master branch locally
but we still have the "remove-ipsum" branch referenced on origin;
however, we know that that branch doesn't exist on GitHub,
it's just a stale reference. So, we need to update those stale references.
And one way to do that is with the "fetch" command.
Type "git fetch"; space; and then "-p", the "-p" is the prune option,
which means it's going to look for any dead branches and remove those references.
Double check that line, and then press enter.
You can see that Git found a deleted branch, which it removed.
Now doing a "git branch -a", we see that we have master like before, locally,
and now we only have master on the remote side,
and then, of course, our special pointer called "HEAD". Either way,
the "remove-ipsum" branch is no longer locally referenced or pointing to our remote.